
Skip to content

Learn Linux in One Week and Go From Zero to Hero - Get This Book

Home



About



eBooks



Shop



Donate



Linux Online Courses



Subscribe to Newsletter



Linux Hosting



A-Z Linux Commands



Get Involved



freestar

Tecmint: Linux Howtos, Tutorials & Guides

Linux Distro’s



FAQ’s



Programming



Linux Commands



Linux Tricks



Best Linux Tools



Certifications



Guides



Monitoring Tools



How to Copy File Permissions and Ownership to Another File in Linux

Aaron KiliFebruary 20, 2018 CategoriesLinux Commands 4 Comments



freestar

Assuming you have two files or you have just created a new file and want it to have the same permissions and ownership of an older file.



In this article, we will show you how to copy permissions and ownership from one file to another file in Linux using chmod and chown commands respectively.



Copy File Permissions to Another File

To copy file permissions from one file to another file, use chmod command with the --reference switch in the following syntax, where reference_file is the file from which permissions will be copied rather than specifying mode (i.e octal or numerical mode permissions) for file.



$ chmod --reference=reference_file file

For example,



$ ls -l users.list

$ ls -l keys.list

$ sudo chmod --reference=users.list keys.list

$ ls -l keys.list

Copy File Permissions to Another File

Copy File Permissions to Another File

Copy File Ownership to Another File

Likewise, to copy ownership from another file, use chown command with the --reference switch as well using the following syntax, where reference_file is file from which owner and group will be copied rather than specifying owner:group values for file.



$ chown --reference=reference_file file



freestar

For example,



$ ls -l keys.list

$ touch api.list

$ ls -l keys.list

$ sudo chown --reference=keys.list api.list

$ ls -l api.list

Copy File Ownership to Another File

Copy File Ownership to Another File

You can also copy file permissions and ownership from one file to multiple files as shown.



$ sudo chmod --reference=users.list users1.list users2.list users3.list

$ sudo chown --reference=users.list users1.list users2.list users3.list

For more information, refer to the chown and chmod man pages.



$ man chown

$ man chmod

You will also find these guides concerning file permissions to be useful:



How to Manage Users and Groups in Linux

Translate rwx Permissions into Octal Format in Linux

How to Find Files With SUID and SGID Permissions in Linux

That’s all! If you know any other way to copy or clone file permissions in Linux, do share with us via the feedback form below.



TagsLinux Tricks

Post navigation

Cryptmount – A Utility to Create Encrypted Filesystems in Linux

How to Install Java 14 in Ubuntu, Debian and Linux Mint

If you liked this article, then do subscribe to email alerts for Linux tutorials. If you have any questions or doubts? do ask for help in the comments section.



freestar

If You Appreciate What We Do Here On TecMint, You Should Consider:

TecMint is the fastest growing and most trusted community site for any kind of Linux Articles, Guides and Books on the web. Millions of people visit TecMint! to search or browse the thousands of published articles available FREELY to all.



If you like what you are reading, please consider buying us a coffee ( or 2 ) as a token of appreciation.



Support Us



We are thankful for your never ending support.



Related Posts

fd Alternative to Find Command

fd – A Simple and Fast Alternative to Find Command



Find Linux Disk Partitions

4 Ways to View Disks and Partitions in Linux



Check Linux Configuration Files

30 Ways to Validate Configuration Files or Scripts in Linux



How to Create File in Linux

8 Practical Examples of Linux “Touch” Command



MysQL Backup/Restore Commands

MySQL Backup and Restore Commands for Database Administration



Run Command Without Saving in History

How to Run a Linux Command Without Saving It in History



4 thoughts on “How to Copy File Permissions and Ownership to Another File in Linux”



Alexey

February 21, 2018 at 4:24 pm

Thank you for your article.



May I use the “–reference=” key for folders, not only files?



For example, to copy permissions or owner on catalog CATALOG1 with all files located in this folder to CATALOG2?



Reply



Aaron Kili

February 22, 2018 at 1:35 pm

@Alexey



You are welcome.



And you can copy the permissions and ownership of CATALOG1 to CATALOG2. Then use the -p flag of the cp command to preserve permissions and ownership while copying files from CATALOG1 to CATALOG2 like this:



$ chown --reference=CATALOG1 CATALOG2

$ chmod --reference=CATALOG1 CATALOG2

$ cp -p ./CATALOG1/* ./CATALOG2/

I hope this makes sense to you.



Reply



Alexey

February 23, 2018 at 11:27 am

Thank you again!



Reply



Aaron Kili

February 24, 2018 at 2:01 pm

@Alexey



Your most welcome, once more. Thanks for following us.



Reply

Got something to say? Join the discussion.

Have a question or suggestion? Please leave a comment to start the discussion. Please keep in mind that all comments are moderated and your email address will NOT be published.



Comment

Name

Name *

Email

Email *

 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




freestar

Over 3,500,000+ Readers



Join TecMint on Facebook Follow TecMint on Twitter Join TecMint on LinkedIn Follow TecMint on Instagram Follow TecMint via RSS Feed Subscribe to TecMint Newsletter

A Beginners Guide To Learn Linux for Free [with Examples]



freestar

Red Hat RHCSA/RHCE 8 Certification Study Guide [eBooks]

Linux Foundation LFCS and LFCE Certification Study Guide [eBooks]

Learn Linux Commands and Tools

A Bash Script to Create a Bootable USB from ISO in Linux



Learn How to Use ‘fuser’ Command with Examples in Linux



How to Find My DNS Server IP Address in Linux



Find Top 15 Processes by Memory Usage with ‘top’ in Batch Mode



How to Start/Stop and Enable/Disable FirewallD and Iptables Firewall in Linux



10 lsof Command Examples in Linux



Join TecMint Weekly Newsletter

If You Appreciate What We Do Here On TecMint, You Should Consider:



Support Us





freestar

Linux Server Monitoring Tools

Observium: A Complete Network Management and Monitoring System for RHEL/CentOS



Use Glances to Monitor Remote Linux in Web Server Mode



How to Monitor User Activity with psacct or acct Tools



Understand Linux Load Averages and Monitor Performance of Linux



How to Limit Network Bandwidth Usage in Linux Using Trickle



Perf- A Performance Monitoring and Analysis Tool for Linux



Learn Linux Tricks & Tips

Learn How to Set Your $PATH Variables Permanently in Linux



10 Commands to Collect System and Hardware Info in Linux



3 Ways to Find Out Which Process Listening on a Particular Port



How to Christmassify Your Linux Terminal and Shell



How to Search and Remove Directories Recursively on Linux



How to Encrypt and Decrypt Files and Directories Using Tar and OpenSSL



Best Linux Tools

4 Best Linux Apps for Downloading Movie Subtitles



Top 5 Open-Source Project Management Tools for Linux



30 Best File Managers for Linux Systems



Top 7 Apps to Install for Your Nextcloud Instance



4 Open Source Log Monitoring and Management Tools for Linux



23 Best Open Source Text Editors (GUI + CLI) in 2021



Donate to TecMintContact UsAdvertise on TecMintLinux ServicesCop